                      
* Exported from MasterCook *

                    Spicy Sweet Corn and Poblano Soup

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 0     Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : 

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
  3              large  garlic clove -- unpeeled
                        vegetable oil for coating garlic
     1/4      teaspoon  coriander seeds
     1/4      teaspoon  cumin seeds
  3             medium  sweet onions such as vidalia, walla walla or maui
  2        tablespoons  vegetable oil
  1           teaspoon  vegetable oil
  1                     jalepeno pepper
  2                     poblano pepper -- roasted and peeled
  3                ear  corn
  6               cups  chicken broth
  1                cup  heavy cream
  12                    long fresh coriander sprigs
  3        tablespoons  fresh lime juice
  1                     red bell pepper -- roasted and peeled
  8                     short fresh coriander sprigs

Preheat oven to 350°F.


Coat garlic lightly with vegetable oil and wrap in foil. Bake garlic 30
minutes, or until soft.


In a dry small heavy skillet toast coriander and cumin seeds over
moderately high heat, stirring, until fragrant and several shades
darker. In an electric coffee/spice grinder grind seeds to powder.


Chop onions and in a 6-quart heavy kettle cook in 2 tablespoons oil over
moderate heat, stirring, until softened. Reserve about one third onions
in a small bowl. Wearing rubber gloves, slice jalapeño and chop roasted
poblanos (abut 1 cup). Remove kernels from ears of corn (about 2 cups),
reserving cobs. To onions in kettle add jalapeño and 1 cup corn kernels
and cook over moderate heat, stirring, 2 minutes. Add ground spices, 1/2
cup poblanos, and salt and pepper to taste and cook, stirring, 2
minutes. Cut reserved corn cobs into thirds and add with broth to corn
mixture. Simmer soup, uncovered, 30 minutes.


In a small heavy skillet sauté remaining kernels in remaining teaspoon
oil over moderately high heat, stirring, just until tender.



Discard corn cobs from soup. Squeeze garlic pulp from skins and stir
with cream into soup. Pour soup through a sieve into a bowl and in a
blender purée solids with just enough liquid to make smooth.


Tie long coriander sprigs in a bunch with kitchen string. Transfer purée
and remaining liquid to kettle with tied coriander and lime juice and
cook over moderate heat, stirring occasionally, just until heated
through. Chop roasted bell pepper. To soup add bell pepper, remaining
poblanos, reserved onions, and sautéed corn and cook over moderate heat,
stirring, until heated through. Discard tied coriander.


Serve soup garnished with coriander.


Yield:
  "8 cups"
                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

Per Serving (excluding unknown items): 1673 Calories; 132g Fat (68.4% calories from fat); 47g Protein; 90g Carbohydrate; 12g Dietary Fiber; 326mg Cholesterol; 4723mg Sodium.  Exchanges: 3 1/2 Grain(Starch); 3 Lean Meat; 4 Vegetable; 1/2 Fruit; 1/2 Non-Fat Milk; 24 Fat.


Nutr. Assoc. : 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

